That Loewenberg students in this lecture we going to talk about ARC very useful too.
It's a utility that enables a programmer to write tiny but effective programs in the form of statements
that define text patterns that are to be searched for in each line of a document and action that has
to be taken when it matters around within a line.
It comes with all Linux versions and it's also available for Windows
and the program is made up of patterns and actions to be performed by the pattern match to spawn
aka scans the input line sequentially and examines each one to determine whether it contains a pattern
matching what is specified by the user whether a matching pattern is false or carries out the instructions
in the program for example or could scan text for critical portion and reformat the tax content in it
according to the use of documents.
If.
According to the users commit if no pattern is specified the program will carry out the command on all
of the input data.
Okay let's take an example of log into a Linux machine right.
No it's in a book to machine this time for a change.
I've been dealing with mostly syntax machine.
As you may have noticed that would be a good idea to give you a taste of Ubuntu also this is a Windows
desktop and I have created a very short text example.
It's called awk examples.
And I just wrote a couple of sentences there.
You know this year has been going well so far.
Blah blah blah.
Anyways and this is what we get to play with for our awk example.
OK.
So
what I'm going to try to do is Filcher first second and third fields in this file.
OK.
So let's see how that's done.
You started with a single coat then double back backslashes
print
dollar one space dollar to space daughter three in the bracket and the coat and then you give it the
file name which in my case is off.
Example
And as you can see this has printed the do the cat so you can look at it.
This year has it has printed the first three words off the fly.
That you've noticed one thing that the field is these fields are not separate It's hard to tell what
this is say.
Right.
So no we going to make a slight adjustment in our off script and that's what we're doing we're actually
on the command line writing a script and you can put all of these short lines in a Perl program or in
abash program and actually create a script.
The script is no magic it's just whatever you put on the command line.
You go ahead and put on script so that we can run sequentially one command after another.
OK so this one let's start off with awk.
Actually we can you just to use the history of when to do a bear or any document is there so why type
the whole thing.
And then I'm going to have a comma here and have a comma here and let's see what we get this time.
OK.
This year has not much better.
It's more readable.
So we created a script we edited it changed it a little bit.
No more readable.
OK let's use an example.
I'm going to clear the screen and we'll do awk single quote backslash backslash print
in the bracket
end of code and we're going to use our C host file on this host.
So this has printed pretty much everything it's like.
I've done a cat on the ASIO's violins showing everything that's not much useful.
We've got to use Auct. actually filter out something takes something important out of this file instead
of just showing everything.
That doesn't really do much for us.
OK so what are you going to do is I'm going to use up arrow again.
And where we have two backslashes we're going to put I.
Sorry I meant to put my for the input.
And instead of just having two backslashes I'm going to have local Hulst and that's the string you've
got to search for.
And then we'll leave the rest of it as it is.
And let's see what happens.
So from this much information we want to just these two lines because both of them are talking about
localhost and that's what we were searching for.
That's what we were filtering out at sea hosts file can now do some character filtering.
OK I'm sorry.
We're going to do some character matching that in the sequence.
OK.
So let's do this.
Awk
zero through nine.
So it's a series of numbers zero through nine.
And the other backslash then we'll have a printed statement.
We get it and that with the curly bracket then end of code at c house.
And what it has printed actually it looked for 0 and the chevre line had zero in it.
It has printed that 0 1 2 and we were supposed to go all the way tonight but past two there is no number
here.
So that's why it printed everything was 0 and everything with two.